.TH biohint 8  "2025-11-26" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
biohint \- Summarize write hint in block of FDP SSDs.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B biohint [\-h] [\-t] [\-s] [\-d <dir>] [interval [count]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
biohint is used to monitor the bi_write_hint field in each block I/O, which
is only relevant for FDP SSDs. It prints ratio of every hint usage for each 
disk or the specified disk either on Ctrl-C, or after a given interval in 
seconds.

This works by tracing kernel tracepoint block:block_bio_queue.

Since this uses BPF, only the root user can use this tool.
.SH REQUIREMENTS
CONFIG_BPF and bcc.
.SH OPTIONS
\-h
Print usage message.
.TP
\-t
Include timestamps on output.
.TP
\-s
Output histograms of every device separately
.TP
\-d
Trace this disk only.
.TP
interval
Output interval, in seconds.
.TP
count
Number of outputs.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Summarize write hint in block of FDP SSDs
#
.B biohint
.TP
Print 1 second summaries, 10 times, and include timestamps on output:
#
.B biohint -T 1 5
.TP
Print histograms of every device separately:
#
.B biolatency -s
.TP
Trace disk mounted on /mnt/fdp only:
#
.B biolatency -d /mnt/fdp
.SH FIELDS
.TP
hint
hint can be choose to place data
.TP
count
How many I/O fell into this range
.TP
distribution
An ASCII bar chart to visualize the distribution (count column)
.SH OVERHEAD
This traces kernel functions and maintains in-kernel timestamps and a histgroam,
which are asynchronously copied to user-space. This method is very efficient,
and the overhead for most storage I/O rates (< 10k IOPS) should be negligible.
If you have a higher IOPS storage environment, test and quantify the overhead
before use.
.SH SOURCE
This is from bcc.
.IP
https://github.com/iovisor/bcc
.PP
Also look in the bcc distribution for a companion _examples.txt file containing
example usage, output, and commentary for this tool.
.SH OS
Linux
.SH STABILITY
Unstable - in development.
.SH AUTHOR
Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
.SH SEE ALSO
