.TH bpflist 8  "2017-03-09" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
bpflist \- Display processes currently using BPF programs and maps.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bpflist [-v]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This tool displays processes currently using BPF programs and maps, and
optionally also kprobes and uprobes on the system. This is useful to understand
which BPF programs are loaded on the system.

Currently, for lack of a better alternative, this tool pipes into 'ls' and
parses its output to snoop for BPF file descriptors in all running processes.
In the future, when BPF accounting is provided by the kernel, this tool should
use these accounting features.

Only the root user can use this tool, because it accesses debugfs.
.SH REQUIREMENTS
bcc, debugfs
.SH OPTIONS
\-h
Print usage message.
.TP
\-v
Count kprobes and uprobes as well as BPF programs. Repeating verbose mode twice
also prints the kprobe and uprobe definitions in addition to counting them.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Display processes currently using BPF programs:
#
.B bpflist
.TP
Also count kprobes and uprobes:
#
.B bpflist -v
.SH FIELDS
.TP
PID
Process ID.
.TP
COMM
Process comm.
.TP
TYPE
The type of the data displayed: BPF program, BPF map, kprobe, or uprobe.
.TP
COUNT
The number of items of this type that belong to the specified process.
.SH SOURCE
This is from bcc.
.IP
https://github.com/iovisor/bcc
.PP
Also look in the bcc distribution for a companion _examples.txt file containing
example usage, output, and commentary for this tool.
.SH OS
Linux
.SH STABILITY
Unstable - in development.
.SH AUTHOR
Sasha Goldshtein
