.TH bps 8  "2017-10-19" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
bps \- List all BPF programs. 'ps' for BPF programs.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bps [bpf-prog-id]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bps
lists all BPF programs loaded into the kernel.  It is similar
to the ps command but for the BPF programs.

Each loaded bpf program is identified by an unique integer (i.e.
.B bpf-prog-id
or simply BID).  If
a
.B bpf-prog-id
is specified, the maps used by
.B bpf-prog-id
will also be listed.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
List all BPF programs loaded into the kernel:
.B bps
.TP
Show the details and maps of BID 6:
.B bps 6
.SH BPF PROGRAM FIELDS
.TP
.B BID
BPF program ID.  It ends with '-' if it is not jitted.
.TP
.B TYPE
The type of a BPF program. e.g. kprobe, tracepoint, xdp...etc.
.TP
.B UID
The user ID that loaded the BPF program.
.TP
.B #MAPS
Total number of maps used by a BPF program.
.TP
.B LoadTime
When was the BPF program loaded?
.TP
.B NAME
The name of a BPF program.  The user space library (like
.B bcc
) usually
uses the C function name of the original BPF's source code as
the program name.  It could be empty if the user space did not
provide a name.

.SH BPF MAP FIELDS
.TP
.B MID
BPF map ID.
.TP
.B TYPE
The type of a BPF map. e.g. hash, array, stack trace...etc.
.TP
.B FLAGS
The flags used to create the BP map.
.TP
.B KeySz
The key size of a BPF map.
.TP
.B ValueSz
The value size of a BPF map.
.TP
.B MaxEnts
The maximum number of entries of a map.
.TP
.B NAME
The name of a BPF map.  The user space library (like
.B bcc
) usually uses the C variable name of the BPF map as its name.
It could be empty if the user space did not provide a name.

.SH SOURCE
This is from bcc.
.IP
https://github.com/iovisor/bcc
.SH OS
Linux
.SH STABILITY
Unstable - in development.
.SH AUTHOR
Martin Lau
