.TH dbslower 8  "2017-02-15" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
dbslower \- Trace MySQL/PostgreSQL server queries slower than a threshold.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dbslower [-v] [-p PID [PID ...]] [-m THRESHOLD] {mysql,postgres}
.SH DESCRIPTION
This traces queries served by a MySQL or PostgreSQL server, and prints
those that exceed a latency (query time) threshold. By default a threshold of
1 ms is used.

This uses User Statically-Defined Tracing (USDT) probes, a feature added to
MySQL and PostgreSQL for DTrace support, but which may not be enabled on a
given installation. See requirements.

Since this uses BPF, only the root user can use this tool.
.SH REQUIREMENTS
CONFIG_BPF, bcc, and MySQL server with USDT probe support (when configuring
the build: \-DENABLE_DTRACE=1) or PostgreSQL server with USDT probe support
(when configuring the build: \-\-enable-dtrace).
.SH OPTIONS
\-h
Print usage message.
.TP
\-p PID
Trace this PID. If no PID is specified, the tool will attempt to automatically
detect the MySQL or PostgreSQL processes running on the system.
.TP
\-m THRESHOLD
Minimum query latency (duration) to trace, in milliseconds. Default is 1 ms.
.TP
{mysql,postgres}
The database engine to trace.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Trace MySQL server queries slower than 1 ms:
#
.B dbslower mysql
.TP
Trace slower than 10 ms for PostgreSQL in process 408:
#
.B dbslower postgres -p 408 -m 10
.SH FIELDS
.TP
TIME(s)
Time of query start, in seconds.
.TP
PID
Process ID of the traced server.
.TP
MS
Milliseconds for the query, from start to end.
.TP
QUERY
Query string, truncated to 256 characters.
.SH OVERHEAD
This adds low-overhead instrumentation to queries, and only emits output
data from kernel to user-level if they query exceeds the threshold. If the
server query rate is less than 1,000/sec, the overhead is expected to be
negligible. If the query rate is higher, test to gauge overhead.
.SH SOURCE
This is from bcc.
.IP
https://github.com/iovisor/bcc
.PP
Also look in the bcc distribution for a companion _examples.txt file containing
example usage, output, and commentary for this tool.
.SH OS
Linux
.SH STABILITY
Unstable - in development.
.SH AUTHOR
Sasha Goldshtein, Brendan Gregg
.SH SEE ALSO
biosnoop(8), mysqld_qslower(8), dbstat(8)
