.TH dslower 8  "2022-12-11" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
dslower \- Trace long process block time(in D state). Uses Linux eBPF/bcc.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dslower [\-h] [\-p PID | \-t TID] [\-s] [min_us]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This script traces long process block time(in D state).
This measures the time between a task was switched off cpu because of
uninterruptible sleep and been woken up. ie: sched_switch -> ttwu_do_wakeup

Since this uses BPF, only the root user can use this tool.
.SH REQUIREMENTS
CONFIG_BPF and bcc.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-h
Print usage message.
.TP
\-p PID
Trace this process ID only (filtered in-kernel).
.TP
\-t TID
Trace this thread ID only (filtered in-kernel).
.TP
\-s
also show stack trace
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Trace block time longer than 10ms for all process
#
.B dslower
.TP
Trace only  PID 181:
#
.B dslower \-p 181
.TP
show stack
#
.B dslower \-s
.SH FIELDS
.TP
TIME
Time of the event.
.TP
CPU
cpu id the event occur
.TP
TID
Thread ID
.TP
COMM
Process name for the PID.
.TP
LAT
block time in us
.SH OVERHEAD
This traces scheduler functions, which can become very frequent. While eBPF
has very low overhead, and this tool uses in-kernel maps for efficiency, the
frequency of scheduler events for some workloads may be high enough that the
overhead of this tool becomes significant. Measure in a lab environment
to quantify the overhead before use.
.SH SOURCE
This is from bcc.
.IP
https://github.com/iovisor/bcc
.PP
Also look in the bcc distribution for a companion _examples.txt file containing
example usage, output, and commentary for this tool.
.SH OS
Linux
.SH STABILITY
Unstable - in development.
.SH AUTHOR
Curu Wong
.SH SEE ALSO
runqslower(8)
