.TH klockstat 8  "2019-10-22" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
klockstat \- Traces kernel mutex lock events and display locks statistics. Uses Linux eBPF/bcc.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B klockstat [\-h] [\-i] [\-n] [\-s] [\-c] [\-S FIELDS] [\-p] [\-t] [\-d DURATION]
.SH DESCRIPTION
klockstat traces kernel mutex lock events and display locks statistics
and displays following data:

                                  Caller   Avg Spin  Count   Max spin Total spin
                      psi_avgs_work+0x2e       3675      5       5468      18379
                     flush_to_ldisc+0x22       2833      2       4210       5667
                       n_tty_write+0x30c       3914      1       3914       3914
                               isig+0x5d       2390      1       2390       2390
                   tty_buffer_flush+0x2a       1604      1       1604       1604
                      commit_echoes+0x22       1400      1       1400       1400
          n_tty_receive_buf_common+0x3b9       1399      1       1399       1399

                                  Caller   Avg Hold  Count   Max hold Total hold
                     flush_to_ldisc+0x22      42558      2      76135      85116
                      psi_avgs_work+0x2e      14821      5      20446      74106
          n_tty_receive_buf_common+0x3b9      12300      1      12300      12300
                       n_tty_write+0x30c      10712      1      10712      10712
                               isig+0x5d       3362      1       3362       3362
                   tty_buffer_flush+0x2a       3078      1       3078       3078
                      commit_echoes+0x22       3017      1       3017       3017


Every caller to using kernel's mutex is displayed on every line.

First portion of lines show the lock acquiring data, showing the
amount of time it took to acquired given lock.

  'Caller'       - symbol acquiring the mutex
  'Average Spin' - average time to acquire the mutex
  'Count'        - number of times mutex was acquired
  'Max spin'     - maximum time to acquire the mutex
  'Total spin'   - total time spent in acquiring the mutex

Second portion of lines show the lock holding data, showing the
amount of time it took to hold given lock.

  'Caller'       - symbol holding the mutex
  'Average Hold' - average time mutex was held
  'Count'        - number of times mutex was held
  'Max hold'     - maximum time mutex was held
  'Total hold'   - total time spent in holding the mutex

This works by tracing mutex_lock/unlock kprobes, updating the
lock stats in maps and processing them in the python part.

Since this uses BPF, only the root user can use this tool.
.SH REQUIREMENTS
CONFIG_BPF and bcc.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-h
Print usage message.
.TP
\-i SEC
print summary at this interval (seconds)
.TP
\-c CALLER
print locks taken by given caller filter (e.g., pipe_)
.TP
\-S FIELDS
sort data on specific columns defined by FIELDS string (by default the data is sorted by Max columns)

FIELDS string contains 1 or 2 fields describing columns to sort on
for both acquiring and holding data. Following fields are available:

  acq_max      for 'Max spin' column
  acq_total    for 'Total spin' column
  acq_count    for 'Count' column

  hld_max      for 'Max hold' column
  hld_total    for 'Total hold' column
  hld_count    for 'Count' column

See EXAMPLES.

.TP
\-n COUNT
print COUNT number of locks
.TP
\-s COUNT
print COUNT number of stack entries
.TP
\-p PID
Trace this process ID only (filtered in-kernel).
.TP
\-t TID
Trace this thread ID only (filtered in-kernel).
.TP
\-d DURATION
Total duration of trace in seconds.
.TP
\-\-stack-storage-size STACK_STORAGE_SIZE
Change the number of unique stack traces that can be stored and displayed.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Sort lock acquired results on acquired count:
#
.B klockstat -S acq_count

.TP
Sort lock held results on total held time:
#
.B klockstat -S hld_total

.TP
Combination of above:
#
.B klockstat -S acq_count,hld_total

.TP
Trace system wide:
#
.B klockstat

.TP
Trace for 5 seconds only:
#
.B klockstat -d 5

.TP
Display stats every 5 seconds
#
.B klockstat -i 5

.TP
Trace locks for PID 123:
#
.B klockstat -p 123

.TP
Trace locks for TID 321:
#
.B klockstat -t 321

.TP
Display stats only for lock callers with 'pipe_' substring
#
.B klockstat -c pipe_

.TP
Display 3 locks:
#
.B klockstat -n 3

.TP
Display 10 levels of stack for the most expensive lock:
#
.B klockstat -n 1 -s 10

Tracing lock events... Hit Ctrl-C to end.
^C
                                  Caller   Avg Spin  Count   Max spin Total spin
                          pipe_wait+0xa9        670 397691      17273  266775437
                          pipe_wait+0xa9
                         pipe_read+0x206
                     new_sync_read+0x12a
                           vfs_read+0x9d
                          ksys_read+0x5f
                      do_syscall_64+0x5b
     entry_SYSCALL_64_after_hwframe+0x44

                                  Caller   Avg Hold  Count   Max hold Total hold
                     flush_to_ldisc+0x22      28381      3      65484      85144
                     flush_to_ldisc+0x22
                  process_one_work+0x1b0
                      worker_thread+0x50
                            kthread+0xfb
                      ret_from_fork+0x35

.SH SOURCE
This is from bcc.
.IP
https://github.com/iovisor/bcc
.PP
Also look in the bcc distribution for a companion _examples.txt file containing
example usage, output, and commentary for this tool.
.SH OS
Linux
.SH STABILITY
Unstable - in development.
.SH CREDITS
This tool is based on work of David Valin <dvalin@redhat.com> and his script.
.SH AUTHOR
Jiri Olsa
