.TH runqlen 8  "2016-12-12" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
runqlen \- Scheduler run queue length as a histogram.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B runqlen [\-h] [\-T] [\-O] [\-C] [interval] [count]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program summarizes scheduler queue length as a histogram, and can also
show run queue occupancy. It works by sampling the run queue length on all
CPUs at 99 Hertz.

This tool can be used to identify imbalances, eg, when processes are bound
to CPUs causing queueing, or interrupt mappings causing the same.

Since this uses BPF, only the root user can use this tool.
.SH REQUIREMENTS
CONFIG_BPF and bcc.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-h
Print usage message.
.TP
\-T
Include timestamps on output.
.TP
\-O
Report run queue occupancy.
.TP
\-C
Report for each CPU.
.TP
interval
Output interval, in seconds.
.TP
count
Number of outputs.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Summarize run queue length as a histogram:
#
.B runqlen
.TP
Print 1 second summaries, 10 times:
#
.B runqlen 1 10
.TP
Print output every second, with timestamps, and show each CPU separately:
#
.B runqlen \-CT 1
.TP
Print run queue occupancy every second:
#
.B runqlen \-O 1
.TP
Print run queue occupancy, with timetamps, for each CPU:
#
.B runqlen \-COT 1
.SH FIELDS
.TP
runqlen
Scheduler run queue length: the number of threads (tasks) waiting to run,
(excluding including the currently running task).
.TP
count
Number of samples at this queue length.
.TP
distribution
An ASCII bar chart to visualize the distribution (count column)
.SH OVERHEAD
This uses sampling at 99 Hertz (on all CPUs), and in-kernel summaries, which
should make overhead negligible. This does not trace scheduler events, like
runqlen does, which comes at a much higher overhead cost.
.SH SOURCE
This is from bcc.
.IP
https://github.com/iovisor/bcc
.PP
Also look in the bcc distribution for a companion _examples.txt file containing
example usage, output, and commentary for this tool.
.SH OS
Linux
.SH STABILITY
Unstable - in development.
.SH AUTHOR
Brendan Gregg
.SH SEE ALSO
runqlat(8), runqslower(8), pidstat(1)
