.TH sofdsnoop 8  "2018-11-08" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
sofdsnoop \- Trace FDs passed through unix sockets. Uses Linux eBPF/bcc.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sofdsnoop [-h] [-T] [-p PID] [-t TID] [-n NAME] [-d DURATION]
.SH DESCRIPTION
sofdsnoop traces FDs passed through unix sockets

Every file descriptor that is passed via unix sockets os displayed
on separate line together with process info (TID/COMM columns),
ACTION details (SEND/RECV), file descriptor number (FD) and its
translation to file if available (NAME).

Since this uses BPF, only the root user can use this tool.
.SH REQUIREMENTS
CONFIG_BPF and bcc.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-h
Print usage message.
.TP
\-T
Include a timestamp column.
.TP
\-p PID
Trace this process ID only (filtered in-kernel).
.TP
\-t TID
Trace this thread ID only (filtered in-kernel).
.TP
\-d DURATION
Total duration of trace in seconds.
.TP
\-n NAME
Only print command lines matching this command name (regex)
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Trace all sockets:
#
.B sofdsnoop
.TP
Trace all sockets, and include timestamps:
#
.B sofdsnoop \-T
.TP
Only trace sockets where the process contains "server":
#
.B sofdsnoop \-n server
.SH FIELDS
.TP
TIME(s)
Time of SEDN/RECV actions, in seconds.
.TP
ACTION
Operation on the fd SEND/RECV.
.TP
TID
Process TID
.TP
COMM
Parent process/command name.
.TP
SOCKET
The socket carrier.
.TP
FD
file descriptor number
.TP
NAME
file name for SEND lines
.SH SOURCE
This is from bcc.
.IP
https://github.com/iovisor/bcc
.PP
Also look in the bcc distribution for a companion _examples.txt file containing
example usage, output, and commentary for this tool.
.SH OS
Linux
.SH STABILITY
Unstable - in development.
.SH AUTHOR
Jiri Olsa
.SH SEE ALSO
opensnoop(1)
