.TH statsnoop 8  "2016-02-08" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
statsnoop \- Trace stat() syscalls. Uses Linux eBPF/bcc.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B statsnoop [\-h] [\-t] [\-x] [\-p PID]
.SH DESCRIPTION
statsnoop traces the different stat() syscalls, showing which processes are
attempting to read information about which files. This can be useful for
determining the location of config and log files, or for troubleshooting
applications that are failing, especially on startup.

This works by tracing various kernel sys_stat() functions using dynamic
tracing, and will need updating to match any changes to these functions.

This makes use of a Linux 4.5 feature (bpf_perf_event_output());
for kernels older than 4.5, see the version under tools/old,
which uses an older mechanism.

Since this uses BPF, only the root user can use this tool.
.SH REQUIREMENTS
CONFIG_BPF and bcc.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-h
Print usage message.
.TP
\-t
Include a timestamp column: in seconds since the first event, with decimal
places.
.TP
\-x
Only print failed stats.
.TP
\-p PID
Trace this process ID only (filtered in-kernel).
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Trace all stat() syscalls:
#
.B statsnoop
.TP
Trace all stat() syscalls, and include timestamps:
#
.B statsnoop \-t
.TP
Trace only stat() syscalls that failed:
#
.B statsnoop \-x
.TP
Trace PID 181 only:
#
.B statsnoop \-p 181
.SH FIELDS
.TP
TIME(s)
Time of the call, in seconds.
.TP
PID
Process ID
.TP
COMM
Process name
.TP
FD
File descriptor (if success), or -1 (if failed)
.TP
ERR
Error number (see the system's errno.h)
.TP
PATH
Open path
.SH OVERHEAD
This traces the kernel stat function and prints output for each event. As the
rate of this is generally expected to be low (< 1000/s), the overhead is also
expected to be negligible. If you have an application that is calling a high
rate of stat()s, then test and understand overhead before use.
.SH SOURCE
This is from bcc.
.IP
https://github.com/iovisor/bcc
.PP
Also look in the bcc distribution for a companion _examples.txt file containing
example usage, output, and commentary for this tool.
.SH OS
Linux
.SH STABILITY
Unstable - in development.
.SH AUTHOR
Brendan Gregg
.SH SEE ALSO
opensnoop(1)
