.TH tplist 8  "2016-03-20" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
tplist \- Display kernel tracepoints or USDT probes and their formats.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tplist [-p PID] [-l LIB] [-v] [filter]
.SH DESCRIPTION
tplist lists all kernel tracepoints, and can optionally print out the tracepoint
format; namely, the variables that you can trace when the tracepoint is hit. 
tplist can also list USDT probes embedded in a specific library or executable,
and can list USDT probes for all the libraries loaded by a specific process.
These features are usually used in conjunction with the argdist and/or trace tools.

On a typical system, accessing the tracepoint list and format requires root.
However, accessing USDT probes does not require root.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-p PID
Display the USDT probes from all the libraries loaded by the specified process.
.TP
\-l LIB
Display the USDT probes from the specified library or executable. If the librar
or executable can be found in the standard paths, a full path is not required.
.TP
\-v
Increase the verbosity level. Can be used to display the variables, locations,
and arguments of tracepoints and USDT probes.
.TP
[filter]
A wildcard expression that specifies which tracepoints or probes to print.
For example, block:* will print all block tracepoints (block:block_rq_complete,
etc.). Regular expressions are not supported.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Print all kernel tracepoints:
#
.B tplist
.TP
Print all net tracepoints with their format:
#
.B tplist -v 'net:*'
.TP
Print all USDT probes in libpthread:
$ 
.B tplist -l pthread
.TP
Print all USDT probes in process 4717 from the libc provider:
$
.B tplist -p 4717 'libc:*'
.TP
Print all the USDT probes in the node executable:
$
.B tplist -l node
.SH SOURCE
This is from bcc.
.IP
https://github.com/iovisor/bcc
.SH OS
Linux
.SH STABILITY
Unstable - in development.
.SH AUTHOR
Sasha Goldshtein
